#summary Learn to quickly create an application on Android and Java with Netconf4Android.

==Introduction==

This guide shows how to create a simple application using the API.

Our aim is to implement a simple Java application that controls a toaster through a Netconf server that has this capability:

     http://netconfcentral.org/ns/toaster

All the features that make the capability to control a toaster is described through the following YANG module:

    [http://www.netconfcentral.org/modulereport/toaster toaster.yang]

Our example, we plan to use a YUMA Server that has the ability to make this capability available in a dynamic way through the LOAD Operation.

To learn how to install the server, please consult the appropriate documentation of the project and in particular, for this example, the following guides:

    [http://www.netconfcentral.org/static/manuals/yuma-installation-guide.pdf Yuma Installation Guide]

    [http://www.netconfcentral.org/static/manuals/yuma-quickstart-guide.pdf Yuma Quickstart Guide]

The home directory of the YUMA Tools project is:

    http://www.netconfcentral.org

Once you have familiarized yourself with the server you can easily access the next step.

Please note that for our example, for simplicity, the user with which you connect must have *superuser privileges* on the YUMA Server.

Only a super user can dynamically load a module and initialize it.

A better Android (and no Java) version of our example is [http://code.google.com/p/netconf4android/downloads/detail?name=Netconf4Android.zip Android Netconf Toaster].

This is an Eclipse project that you can safely explore and from which to take ideas for your Android applications.

==Step 1: Setup the Development Environment on Eclipse==

First you must download the *netconf4Android-Binaries.zip* archive of the last version of *netconf4Android API* at this URL:

     http://code.google.com/p/netconf4android/downloads/list

You'll find in the archive the libraries to use.
Unzip the archive to a location of your choice.

Please read very carefully the *_README.txt* and *_LICENSE.txt* files.

You will find them into the *netconf4Android-Binaries* directory.

The libraries you need to include in your project are:

   * netconf4android.jar - The netconf4Android API
   * lib/ganymed-ssh2-build210/ganymed-ssh2-build210.jar - The Ganymed-SSH2 API to use the SSH-2 transport protocol.


* Please, open Eclipse now and create a new project called 'Netconf Toaster':

   * File -> New -> Java Project

   * Insert this values into the form:

      Project name: Netconf Toaster

   * Press the OK button.

* After creating the project, create the public class 'Toaster' as the entry point for the application:

   * File -> New -> Class

   * Insert this values into the form:

      Package: com.vhosting.netconf.example (or a package of your choice)

      Nane: Toaster

      Add the public static void main method.

   * Press the OK button.

* At this point, you will need to add the libraries to the project to use them:

   * Project -> Properties -> Java Build Path -> Add External JARs...

   * Select the location of the netconf4android.jar library and repeat the action for the ganymed-ssh2-build210.jar library.

   * Press the OK button.

The development environment is ready now.
|| *Step 1 - Video 1* || *Step 1 - Video 2* ||
|| <wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8uTzylpXzmk"/> || <wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=igCGVY5lNPM"/> ||

==Step 2: Toaster Capability declaration==

|| *Step 2 - Video 1* ||
|| <wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=atnvbsQi8B0"/> ||


==Step 3: Connect to the Server==

|| *Step 3 - Video 1* ||
|| <wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GSgx2RCAZbg"/> ||


==Step 4: Enable the Log Stream==

|| *Step 4 - Video 1* ||
|| <wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5nHzhnGru0A"/> ||


==Step 5: Transport Events==

|| *Step 5 - Video 1* ||
|| <wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RyOJXW26vkU"/> ||


==Step 6: Program Flow==

|| *Step 6 - Video 1* ||
|| <wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yELzp1iFOEE"/> ||


==Step 7: Load the Toaster YANG Module and Initialize It==

|| *Step 7 - Video 1* || *Step 7 - Video 2* || *Step 7 - Video 3* ||
|| <wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9EGwSlzO5U0"/> || <wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W7us9IcMrMQ"/> || <wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cs0cROQITyQ"/> ||


==Step 8: Enable Notifications==

|| *Step 8 - Video 1* || *Step 8 - Video 2* ||
|| <wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1IXcrtceTXc"/> || <wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8FYfXPNI79Y"/> ||


==Step 9: Make Toasts==

|| *Step 9 - Video 1* ||
|| <wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ye67QLCsFMQ"/> ||

==Step 10: Final Note==


Copyright (c) 2010 Giuseppe Palmeri